Benjamin netanyahu's government has
voted to ban the Qatari broadcaster Al
jazer from operating in Israel the
decision follows a law passed by the
Israeli knesset that allows the
temporary closure of foreign
broadcasters considered to pose a
security threat Israeli media say the
block can last up to 45 days the head of
alzer's Israeli operation called the ban
dangerous and said it was motivated by
politics journalist balag sladin joins
me now from Tel Aviv thanks for coming
on um what is netanyahu's cabinet saying
about why they made this
decision well there are some things that
they are saying publicly and others that
they are not saying publicly in terms of
what they are saying publicly is that
the law comes not to uh close El jazer
specifically but the law itself says
that any media outlet that does harm
Israel's security will be closed now
we've seen that with withad a couple of
months ago as well but now we're seeing
it with a different and a more uh
influential media which is El jazer it's
not mentioned actually in the law but of
course everyone knows that that's what
we are talking about why El jazer
hurting or harming Israel's security
well there have been many accusations
throughout the years that El jazer are
using the reporters in order to report
from places that are not entirely accept
CED by the military some things that the
military does censor that they are
saying with no censorship these
accusations we have heard over the years
but it's happening right now and this is
the big question why right now
specifically some are saying um in the
background of the war El jazer with in
its influential uh um coverage in the
Arab world in general they are of course
uh um hurting Israel's um stance or
repution in the world something that
Israel cares about and it's also
Championship championing excuse me Hamas
and what they call the Islamic
resistance or the Palestinian resistance
in general what they're not saying
publicly is that the Israeli cabinet
knows that no one actually is putting
any pressure on Qatar the owner of Al
jazer to pressure Hamas in this deal so
they're trying to do something to make
it lose something so maybe it can hurt
it can press
now you touched on this a little bit but
practically speaking what does this
actually mean the closure of alzer's
offices in Jerusalem uh which they have
and to clarify does this impact alzer's
reporting operations in
Gaza well I've talked to my colleagues
in jazer that are working here um that
does mean that they will close the
offices of Al jazer in Jerusalem but the
law and it states that clearly we are
talking about only only the 67 borders
so inside proper Israel we're talking
about the Gan Heights of course Israel
itself and the east of Jerusalem we're
not talking about the West Bank and also
of course not talking about Gaza unless
of course at some point Israel does have
any uh any administrative uh rule over
Gaza at any point in the future but for
now we're talking about the 67 border
alone it will not hurt what is going to
happen in Gaza journalist bik sladin in
Tel Aviv thank you very much